Rename Indexer client to Generator client throughout documentation (#253)
shinzonetwork/docs: content/hosts/overview/index.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  GEN -- "P2P replication<br/>(blocks, txs, logs)" --> Host
```

mermaid = true
+++

> A Shinzo Host is a service that turns indexed blockchain data into Views that applications can query over GraphQL. It receives signed data from one or more Generators over a peer-to-peer network, verifies it, runs WebAssembly transforms over it, and stores the results in a local DefraDB instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Shinzo Host is a service that turns indexed blockchain data into Views that applications can query over GraphQL. It receives signed data from one or more Generator clients over a peer-to-peer network, verifies it, runs WebAssembly transforms over it, and stores the results in a local DefraDB instance.
```

> A Host is not an Generator. It does not talk to a source-chain execution client and does not pull blocks from Geth, Reth, or the equivalent node on other supported chains. Instead, the Host consumes primitive documents that Generators have already produced and signed (blocks, transactions, logs, and chain-specific extras like EIP-2930 access list entries on Ethereum). The Host then verifies those documents, runs the transformations defined by registered Views, and makes the results available to applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Host client is not an Generator client. It does not talk to a source-chain execution client and does not pull blocks from Geth, Reth, or the equivalent node on other supported chains. Instead, the Host client consumes primitive documents that Generator clients have already produced and signed (blocks, transactions, logs, and chain-specific extras like EIP-2930 access list entries on Ethereum). The Host client then verifies those documents, runs the transformations defined by registered Views, and makes the results available to applications.
```

## Purpose and role in the stack

{% mermaid() %}
flowchart LR

>   IDX["Generators<br/>(signed primitives)"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  GEN["Generator clients<br/>(signed primitives)"]
```

### Transformations

> Developers register Views on ShinzoHub, where each View defines how primitive data should be filtered, decoded, and reshaped. A View might ABI-decode ERC-20 `Transfer` logs from Ethereum into a `USDCTransfer` collection, or decode equivalent token events on another supported chain. The Host downloads the View's WebAssembly lens, runs it against the primitives it receives from Generators, and writes the resulting documents to its local DefraDB. Applications query those documents over GraphQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers register Views on ShinzoHub, where each View defines how primitive data should be filtered, decoded, and reshaped. A View might ABI-decode ERC-20 `Transfer` logs from Ethereum into a `USDCTransfer` collection, or decode equivalent token events on another supported chain. The Host downloads the View's WebAssembly lens, runs it against the primitives it receives from Generator clients, and writes the resulting documents to its local DefraDB. Applications query those documents over GraphQL.
```

### Attestations

> When a Host receives the same block from multiple independent Generators, it verifies each signature and creates an `AttestationRecord` that tracks how many Generators produced identical data. These records replicate between Hosts using a P-counter CRDT, which lets applications check how many independent sources agree on a piece of data before trusting it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Host client receives the same block from multiple independent Generator clients, it verifies each signature and creates an `AttestationRecord` that tracks how many Generator clients produced identical data. These records replicate between Host clients using a P-counter CRDT, which lets applications check how many independent sources agree on a piece of data before trusting it.
```

> Generators are the write side of the network. Hosts are the read side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generator clients are the write side of the network. Host clients are the read side.
```

## Related reading

> The [Architecture overview](/reference/architecture-overview/) covers how the Host connects to the rest of the stack, including the Generator P2P layer, ShinzoHub registration, the attestation pipeline, and View distribution. The [Host client reference](/reference/components/host-client/) goes deeper into the client internals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Architecture overview](/reference/architecture-overview/) covers how the Host client connects to the rest of the stack, including the Generator client's P2P layer, ShinzoHub registration, the attestation pipeline, and View distribution. The [Host client reference](/reference/components/host-client/) goes deeper into the client internals.
```
